# Case study:  Implementing the CAPM and the Fama-French Three-Factor Model

Problem DescriptionThe capital asset pricing model (CAPM) is a widely used model in finance that is used to priceand individual stock or portfolio.  In this case study, you will be implementing the CAPM usinga simple linear regression model.Sharpe (1964) and Lintner (1965) developed the CAPM. Under the CAPM model, all investorsare assumed to be rational and risk-averse, have homogeneous expectations, be broadly diver-sified across a rand of investments, and be able to borrow and lend money freely at the samerisk-free rate.  In such a market, the expected return of a stock can be expressed asE[R] =Rf+β(E[Rm]−Rf),1
whereRis the return on the stock,Rmis the return on the market portfolio,Rfis the returnon the risk-free asset, andβis a parameter that can be interpreted as a measure of the riskinessof the underlying stock.To implement the CAPM, we can fit a basic (or simple) linear regression model of a stock’sexcess returnon the market-portfolio’s excess return as follows.Ri−Rf,i=α+β(Rm,i−Rf,i) +i,  i= 1,2,...,n,whereRiis the realized return on the stock in periodi,Rm,iis the realized return on the stockin periodi,Rf,iis the realized return on the risk-free assets in periodi,nis the number of datapoints, andiis the error term.After  several  researches  had  found  empirical  contradictions  of  the  CAPM  model,  Fama  andFrench (1992) extended CAPM further by adding two more factors, thus obtaining the Fama-French Three-Factor Model.One additional variable is called SMB (Small Minus Big).  It is formed by the average returnon three small portfolios minus the average return on three big portfolios, making it the sizepremium.The second additional variable is called HML (High Minus Low).  It is the average return ontwo high value portfolios minus the average return on two growth portfolios.  It is also referredto as the value premium.Therefore, the model becomesRi−Rf,i=α+βMkt·(Rm,i−Rf,i) +βSMB·SMB+βHML·HML+i,  i= 1,2,...,n,Interesting readers are referred to Fama and French (1992) for further details.In this coursework, we can directly use Fama-French research data for our analyses.  Eugene F.Fama and Kenneth R. French have been constructing these data and have still been updatingthem on Kenneth R. French’s personal website1.For this coursework, each group will be investigating one particular company’s stock returns andimplement a CAPM model as well as a Fama-French Three-Factor Model for that company’sstock return.  You will be directed to answer several questions while conducting the analyses.
